How will the neighbourhood evolve in 10 years in terms of services for young people and elderly?  
What will be the most useful skills for finding work in Bologna in 2035?  
Will it be easier or harder to find affordable housing in the future?  
How can we redesign welfare services to anticipate predicted population aging?  
What housing policies are necessary to guarantee home access for new generations and families?  
How to orient educational offerings to align with future economic fabric needs?  
Simulate demographic scenarios to 2040: what will be the impact on health spending and service demand?  
What is the expected impact of a new social housing policy on population distribution in the city?  
Create a predictive model to identify future "hotspots" of social fragility.  
How will my travel times change with the future tram network?  
Will I have more shared mobility options (e-bikes, scooters, cars) in my neighbourhood?  
Will it be safer for my children to go to school on foot or by bike in 5 years?  
What mix of incentives (public transport, sharing) and disincentives (road pricing, ZTL) is most effective to reduce private car use by 20% by 2030?  
How to plan last-mile logistics development to make it sustainable?  
What infrastructure investments are priorities to promote zero-emission mobility?  
Simulate the impact on air quality and congestion of different "work-from-home" scenarios (e.g., 2 days/week).  
Model the cascade impact of introducing a new tram line on the rest of the public and private transport network.  
Predict future demand for electric charging stations by neighbourhood.  
Will my neighbourhood become a more attractive area for new commercial activities?  
What career opportunities will emerge in Bologna in innovative sectors (AI, green-tech)?  
Will tourism in my area become more sustainable or more invasive?  
What policies (fiscal, urban planning) can we implement to attract talent and businesses in future strategic sectors?  
How can we govern commerce transformation to balance large retail, neighbourhood shops, and e-commerce?  
What strategy to adopt to de-seasonalize tourist flows and increase average stay?  
Create a model to predict the economic and employment impact of establishing a large research center  
Simulate the effects of different tourism policies (e.g., limited numbers in certain areas, variable tourist tax) on economic and social sustainability.  
Analyze global trends to predict which economic sectors will be most resilient or at risk in Bologna.  
How will my local energy community contribute to city objectives?  
In 10 years, will my street be cooler in summer thanks to more trees and less asphalt?  
What benefits will I get from adopting a point-based waste pricing system?  
What is the most cost-effective investment plan to achieve carbon neutrality of public buildings?  
How to design an urban forestation plan that maximizes benefits (heat mitigation, CO2 absorption, wellbeing)  
What policies can accelerate the transition toward circular economy and waste reduction at source?  
Model the impact of a "de-paving" program (asphalt removal) on soil permeability and hydrogeological risk reduction.  
Simulate the production and sharing potential of a neighbourhood "Renewable Energy Community."  
Predict the city's water needs by 2040 in climate change scenarios.  
How will my neighbourhood's appearance change with planned urban regeneration projects?  
Will the city's cultural offering be more inclusive and distributed outside the center too?  
What will be the impact of new technologies on perceived and real security?  
How can we incentivize conversion of abandoned areas to create new cultural or residential hubs, avoiding further soil consumption?  
What digital strategy to adopt to make cultural heritage more accessible and interactive?  
How to design safe and inclusive public spaces ("security by design") in future development areas?  
Simulate the long-term impact of a major urban regeneration project on property values and social cohesion in the area.  
Create a model to optimize the location of new cultural services based on demographic and mobility data.  
Analyze how IoT data integration (e.g., noise sensors, smart lighting) can support predictive urban security.